	Computer is an electronic device that is design to work with information. It is an advance electronic device that takes raw data as input from the user and processes these data under the control of set of instructions and gives the result and saves the output for future use. People use computer in many ways, from Engineers to Doctors, Students, Teachers and Government Organization they all use computers to perform specific tasks, for entertainment or just to finish office work. Computers have made our life easier so as computer users, we should take care of our computers and know the basic care and maintenance of our computers. 
Troubleshooting is important for us to know as a Computer Engineering student, because if there are troubles or malfunctions in our computer we can easily trace the trouble because we already know the basics of determining the cause of specific problem. When troubleshooting a computer system you must follow the right steps to avoid damaging the computer, gathering the right information on the issue must be the first step. You must not directly operate especially on the motherboard where there are many sensitive parts like wires, expansion cards and the components that are mounted on the motherboard. When troubleshooting a computer we must also be careful so that we can do it effectively.
	My whole experience of this subject throughout this semester was a bit bumpy. Upon starting the class we where group into pairs and given a topic to present by our instructor Engineer Ralph Vincent Galao, who did not able to finish this semester because he resigned being an instructor at Bohol island State Univerversity – Main Campus, particularly in College of Engineering and Architecture. To do our task, me and my partner, Marrish Oclarit, do some research about our topic which is about graphic cards so that we can gain more information and we can deliver our presentation well in the class.
 I need to adjust and understand every bit of the topic discussed, especially that this subject required as to present and explain the given topic assigned to us in front of the class. It was a bit challenging for me presenting because I am not used to it. I’m not good at speaking in front of people and I am thankful that in this subject I was given an opportunity to overcome my fears and I made sure that I imparted knowledge to my classmate about our topic. On the other hand, I also made sure to understand all of the discussion presented by our classmates, so that it would be an asset for me in the future to have knowledge about this subject matter. 
Since our previous instructor, Engineer Ralph Vincent Galao, left the institution  we  have our new instructor ,Engineer Max Angelo Perin who was alumnus  of Bohol Island State University Main Campus and also a Computer Engineering graduate take over the classes of Engineer Ralph Vincent Galao. In our class we continue the reporting that has been planned from the start of the  semester and proceed to troubleshooting a motherboard and the Raspberry Pi.
We experience troubleshooting a motherboard with my group mates and find the possible cause of the problem why the computer not turning on. We as a group helped each other to troubleshoot the motherboard carefully so that we can avoid damaging the wires and components that are mounted on the motherboard. We conclude that the power supply cannot support the entire system  to function because the capacitor of the power supply is needed to be replaced because the said component is bloated, and there is also a possibility that the fuse of the power supply is damage so it must be replaced and also the system unit is covered with dirt and dust that might be also the factor why the motherboard is not working properly. We also tried to troubleshoot a Raspberry Pi and we conclude that the raspberry pi is functional because it has an Operating System installed already installed, the cables that used to connect to the raspberry pi is in good condition and the power supply that is used to supply the raspberry pi reached the required voltage in order for it to function well, this activity we gives as   a bit of knowledge about the Raspberry Pi. This activity serves as our quiz number one and quiz number two in our final term. 
About our new instructor, Engineer Max Angelo Perin, I was amazed on how he supervised as during examination because instead of using the Alphabet characters that we usually used on our exams he used Baybayin character, it was a bit challenging to me to unsterstand it because I don’t know what is the Babayin character equivalent in the Alphabet characters but on the other hand it was fun learning Baybayin and now I appreciate it more and proud that we have our own writings that we can share to the world.
As I have also notice he is a bit strict in terms of grammar, and me writing this essay I am not confident that everything that I have written here is grammatically correct but as an instructor it is a good thing that he is that kind of meticulous person particularly  in grammar so that we could practice and enhance our communication and speaking skills more because as a computer  engineering in the making communication is very important, because through this we can do our work well , can be productive and can  make bond in a diverse  workplace.   
  I am so grateful that I was given a chance to experience these things in this subject matter, because through this I can also share the knowledge that I learned in this subject to other people and help them in their problems regarding computers.
	Every little bit of knowledge and learning’s of this subject was a big help in the field of my course, to enhance my capability of being a computer engineering student.
	


	 
	

